# comp110-journal 
 
 
## When does a physical system compute? [1] 
I found this paper very hard to understand but I believe I understand the basic idea of it. The paper explains when a physical system computes. It goes very in depth and uses a lot of physics, which I didn't understand very well, to explain how abstract and physical entities link using the representation relation. The representation relation is explained in the paper and says that "such a representation allows comparisons to be made between physical processes and mathematically described computations". There were many diagrams showing the relationship between abstract and physical entities which made it a bit clearer to me. From what I understand, In a computer the program/algorithm is the abstract entity and the physical hardware of the computer is the physical entity. So we create the abstract computation and the computer represents it using the physical components.   
I found the paper highly confusing and hard to understand, however I still believe I learnt a lot about  how the physical and abstract levels of a computation connect through the representation relation.

## Experimental Investigations of the Utility of Detailed Flowcharts in Programming. [2] 
This paper mainly consists of multiple experiments which were used to ascertain under which conditions detailed flowcharts were helpful. All the experiments showed that flowcharts make no significant difference in beginner or intermediate programming performance on programming tasks (composition, comprehension, debugging, and modification). I believe this paper shows that flowcharts are not helpful when doing short programming tasks, but it doesn't look at other ways flowcharts could be helpful. For example flowcharts could be helpful when explaining programs to non programmers, like investors or other members of a development team who don't do much programming. After reading this paper I believe that flowcharts are only useful to provide a vague understanding of how a program works, they don't help with program composition, comprehension, debugging, or modification.

## A Fast Procedure for Computing the Distance Between Complex Objects in Three-Dimensional Space [3] 
Calculating the distance between two 2D objects is very simple, doing the same with 3D objects is much more complicated. This paper presents an algorithm for calculating the "Euclidean" distance between complex objects in three-dimensional space. The Euclidean distance is the straight line distance between two points. This algorithm could be useful in games to calculate the Euclidean distance between virtual 3D objects. For example it can be used to calculate the "straight line"  distance between the player and a waypoint set by the player in an open world game such as Skyrim. 
 
## Letters to the editor: go to statement considered harmful [4] 
This paper consisted of a number of letters to an editor about programming. Each letter discussed different ideas and methods of programming or opinions on other ideas and methods that are already being used. For example in the first letter, Edsger Dijkstra discussed how 'the go to statement should be abolished from all "higher level" programming languages'.  I believe the main issue that Edsger had with the go to statement was that it was hard to find a meaningful set of coordinates in which to describe the process progress, which basically means  you could not determine the state of the process. Edsger used an example of counting the number of people in a room by increasing n each time someone entered the room. 'In the in-between moment that we have observed someone entering the room but have not yet performed the subsequent increase of n, its value equals the number of people in the room minus one!' 

## How do these papers link?  
All of these papers are linked as they all provide knowledge of good practice in programming and computing in general. This helps to shape a better future for computation. They talk about how abstract and physical entities link, the efficiency of flowcharts, a fast method for calculating distance in 3D, and how  go to can be bad practice. The 3rd and 4th paper are similar in that they both talk about bad methods of programming which are used in industry and teaching. The 4th paper explains why the goto statement can be harmful and should be abolished from programming, while the 3rd paper talks about how flowcharts are redundant in most cases and can even hinder understanding sometimes.
